# library

This project was built for The Odin Project, Javascript Library Project. I found implementing the object constructor fairly easy. I did make a branch that used classes instead of the object constructor, but after reading ahead, i switched back. I wanted to build it with what was taught, because I believe there will be opportunity to use classes in the future and wanted to be sure I understood the object constructor. I did build in the prototype function, but felt it was unnecessary to complete the project and deleted it. Adding a new book to the list and displaying it in a card was easy. I did not build a function to display the cards already in the list, since I did not prepopulate the list. Getting the element removed from both the page and the list was harder, and I had to play around with the console.log function a lot. I ended up using the dataset.id property, setting it to the title, since that would be the only non-repeated value in the list. I also had to put the event listeners for the delete buttons in the function for submitting the form, since each submit of the form would add a new button that wouldn't be available on load. I used a similar method for turning the read status into a sliding checkbox that was accessible from the card. I had no problem getting the values from a form, but getting the form to pop up with a click of a button proved harder. I ended up looking up a method on google, and copied and pasted the css to make it happen. I also copied and pasted the css for the sliders on the cards. The design itself needs work, so I will work on learning more on web-design in the future, however, I do not want web design to hold me back from learning javascript at this time. I also decided against implementing the local storage option for this project. I have been doing a course on udemy from which I am learning database handling at this moment. Comparing the two methods, using local storage for this sort of project seems counterproductive. Implementing the storage would require a great deal of manipulation to the existing code for something that I don't believe is intended to handle great amounts of storage. Web storage makes more sense for usernames and passwords, or saving preferred reading styles. The information for this project would be better stored in a real databasee, using javascript frameworks to access it. Nor does using the web storage further cement my learning on objects and dom manipulation. 

I am interested in rebuilding this code using a real database and perhaps trying to implement a barcode scanner and the google books API once I am more advanced. I would want to scan a book's barcode with the computer's camera, look it up with the google books API, and return a 'card' with the title, author, genre, and an image and page number for whichever version pops up first. It would still have a toggle switch for whether it is read or not, along with buttons to filter through the read and non-read books, or to organize by genre. 
